

Risk management process
- Identifying the Risk: identify riks that the bussines is exposed to.
- Analyse the Risk: Analyzing the risks to determine the impact and probability, the risk should be mapped in the bussines.
- Evaluate the Risk: Evaluating, ranking and prioritizing risks. 
- Monitoring risk: all risk mas be constantly monitored

C.I.A: Confidencialty, integrity, availability of data.

Red Team vs. Blue Team:
-Red team as attackers
-Blue team as defenders

Role of penetration testrs: (Red Teamer)
- Helps to identify risks in internal and external networks.
- Network and web aplication enviroments, sensitive data exposure, missconfiguration, reputational harm.

Getting started with a Pentest distro:
- Must know how set up, mantein and secure Linux and Windows attack machines.

ISO:
is just a CD-ROM that can be mouted within our hypervisor to built in the VM by installing the OS ourselves.

OVA:
The OVA file is a pre-built virtual aplicationt that contains an ONF XML file that specifies the VM hardware settings and a VMDK.

What is Parrot OS?
Is a free open sourse GNU/Linux distribution basen on Debian stable designed for security experts, developers and security aware people.
It incluides a full portable arsenal for IT security and digital forensics, includes everything you need to develop your own programs and.
Is available in three main editions: Security, Home and Architec edition, VM edition, RaspBerry Pi and Doker 



comands

whoami
pwd
ls -a
mkdir
touch
nano es mejor
vim es una mierda
sudo: permite ejecutar comandos como administrador si dicho usario tiene sudo


Parrto esta sobre Debian, tener cuidado con el sistema operativo
siempre buscar instalacion para Debian

estudiar mas de los tipos de shell

Tipos de puertos: ESTUDAIR MAS DE PUERTOS
TCP: es una conexion estable entre las 2 maquinas 
UDP: envia informacion sin receptor 

Handshake entre maquinas

SSH (Secure Shell)
Es un protocolo de red que corre sobre el puerto 22 
para conectarse es ssh user@ip

NETCAT
metodo para interactuar con los puertos UDP/TCP 
permite escanear puertos y establecer conexion
se requiere ip
hay que saber mas de los tipos de puertos

SOCAT 
hace lo mismo que netcat 
permite comunicar con puertos y concectarse a multiples puertos
conexion estable en una reverse shell

TMUX
permite tener multiples ventanas en un terminal y saltar de uno a operativo

NMAP
escaneo de puertos
-sC para escaneo de parametros especificos
-sV para escaneo de versiones 
-p- para escanear todos los puertos

nmap -sC -sV -p- 10.129.42.253  

NMAP & NETCAT
con estas dos herramientas podemos determinas el banner de un puerto
 nc -nc 10.129.42.253 -21
 nmap -sV --script=banner p21 10.129.42.235

 FPT (File transfer protocole)
 es un protocolo poderoso ya que permite comandos como ls y cd
 permite tranferiri documentos con get
 y posterior cat para ver el contenido del archivo


 SMB(Server Message Block)
 





